fix(container): emit components as partials (#12239)
withastro/astro: .changeset/soft-rabbits-draw.md

---
"astro": patch
---

**BREAKING CHANGE to the experimental Container API only**

Until now, the Container API was rendering the components as they were full-fledged Astro pages.

> Full-fledged Astro pages contain `<!DOCTYPE html>` but default. This was not intended, and this patch fixes the behavior. 

Reviewer: My take is still that we shouldn't be adding the doctype for people 😠

> Until now, the Container API was rendering the components as they were full-fledged Astro pages.
> 
> Full-fledged Astro pages contain `<!DOCTYPE html>` but default. This was not intended, and this patch fixes the behavior. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Changes the default page rendering behavior of Astro components in containers, and adds a new option `partial: false` to render full Astro pages as before.

Previously, the Container API was rendering all Astro components as if they were full Astro pages containing `<!DOCTYPE html>` by default. This was not intended, and now by default, all components will render as [page partials](https://docs.astro.build/en/basics/astro-pages/#page-partials): only the contents of the components without a page shell.
```
I'm assuming these will work like "page partials" that we've already documented, so we can link there if that's helpful!

> It's still possible to render the component as a full-fledged Astro page by passing a **new option** called `partial: false` to `renderToString` and `renderToResponse`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To render the component as a full-fledged Astro page, pass a new option called `partial: false` to `renderToString()` and `renderToResponse()`:
```

```js

> import { experimental_AstroContainer as AstroContainer } from 'astro/containerl';

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import { experimental_AstroContainer as AstroContainer } from 'astro/container';
```
